I be wife, Betsy, and I be on the Queen Elizabeth, come back from I first trip to Europe. On the first day, I play I favourite game, try to guess what the different person be. Betsy call I attention to one man with grey hair that stand up on he head, and with deep dark blue eye. He be dress in an old sweater and trouser, and have summer shoe on he foot. I immediately guess that he be an artist, a French artist. Betsy laugh at I, because I have agree that person seldom or never look like what they really be. She say he be probably a member of the British Parliament


On the second day, I be walk around the deck when I see the same man. He have pull his chair into a corner where the wind be not so sharp and when I push my nose into his corner, he raise his head and give me a very angry look. I begin to move away, say I be sorry, when suddenly his expression change.


"Wait!" he call out. "You be an American?"


He English be good, and he ask I if I have a moment to help he with a small problem. He want to know if there be a United States senator name Boat or Ship. He show I the ship's daily crossword puzzle. The question he could not answer be "A Senator who cross a river". I think for a minute and then remember — Senator Bridges! I tell he and he quick write it in, and then fly away along the deck without say goodbye.


I do not see he again until the next day. He come to I and show I a silver pen. "I win it!" he say. "The first prize! Come and have a cocktail with I!"


We go to he room and have a drink. He say he name be Roland and thank I again and again for help he with the puzzle. Then he ask I about I. We talk for half a hour, and at last he ask I whether I can keep a secret. I tell he I can, and then he tell I that he real name be Lautisse.


I tell Betsy all about it, so after lunch we go to the library and ask the librarian who Lautisse be. She tell us that Lautisse be probably the most famous painter in the world. She find a book with a photograph of he and his biography. It say that Lautisse have suddenly stop paint, say he have decide never to paint again, and that he have not paint anything for the last ten year. After that Betsy make I invite he to our room and he come. We become quite friendly, and he tell us he be an unhappy man and hate person; that he live alone in his villa on the Riviera and never see anybody. He plan to spend a month in New York, where nobody know he, and Betsy invite he to come to our place in the country for a week-end.


Lautisse come on the twelve o'clock train and I meet he at the station. We have promise that there would not be any other guest, and that we would not talk to he about art.


I get up early the next morning, and while I be have breakfast I remember about a job that I have to do. There be a low white fence around our vegetable garden, that I build myself and that I be very proud of. The fence need new paint, and after breakfast I go out with a bucket half full of white paint. But before I can begin, Lautisse come into the garden. I ask he whether he have have breakfast, and he say my wife be prepare it for he. He ask I what I be go to do and I tell he. I say I be not in a hurry: the fence can wait and I can walk around the garden with he. But he insist on my begin immediately. He take the bucket of paint from I and say: "First, I will show you."


I be not Tom Sawyer — I do not want anybody to paint the fence for I. So, after a minute or two, I stop he. "I will continue," I say.


"No, no!" he cry, and he go on, work more quick. And when Betsy call to he that his breakfast be ready, he say impatient, "No, no! No breakfast. I will paint the fence."


I argue with he, but he refuse to listen. I go into the house and tell Betsy: "I can not do anything with he. He be go to paint the whole fence." Betsy laugh at I. "Let he," she say. "He be have a good time." So I take the Sunday newspaper and begin to read; but every half hour I go out to watch he paint. I be a little angry, because I have want to paint I fence myself. But of course, I say nothing: he be I guest. He spend three hour, and finish the whole fence. Then he come in, with paint on he clothes and on he hand and face. He eye be shine. "I finish it!" he cry happy. "The whole thing." He make I come with he to look at he work.


In the afternoon, he ask I if I place be near Chappaqua, because he have a friend there. When I tell he Chappaqua be the next town, he ask if it be possible to telephone Gerston, the sculptor, who live there. So I get Gerston for he, but he talk in French, and I have no idea what the conversation be about.


He go back to New York that evening. At the station, he shake I hand and say I be a fine fellow, and that he have not enjoy he so much in year.


Do not hear anything from he or about he for ten day. And then suddenly his name be in all the newspaper. A correspondent in France have find out about Lautisse's secret trip to New York, and have send a telegram to his New York newspaper office. The office have find he at his hotel and have insist on an interview. At the end of the article they write: "Since his arrival, Lautisse have spend all of his time in New York, except for a week-end at the home of Mr and Mrs Gregg in Westchester. He meet the Gregg on the ship, come from France."


The day after the story appear, a reporter and a photographer from one of the newspaper arrive at our house while I be not at home. So Betsy have to talk to they. They want to know everything about the great man, and of course Betsy tell they about the garden fence. They take picture of it, and of the paint bucket and the next morning there be a long story in the newspaper, head: Lautisse Paint Again.


That same afternoon, a little man arrive in a big car with a driver. The man jump out and run to I, shout, "Where be it? Where be the fence?" When I make he talk more quiet, he tell me he be Mr Vegaro, from the Millard Galleries, and he want to see the fence Lautisse have paint.


He stand before that fence, shake his head and cry: "Beautiful!" and "Wonderful!" Then suddenly he say: "Mr Gregg, I would like to buy your fence. I will give you five hundred dollar for it." But at that moment, another car come up to the house, and two man jump out of it and run towards we shout, "Stop! Stop!"


The three man stand around I, shout at each other until I begin shout at they. Then they become quiet and the two man introduce they. They have come from the Widdicome Galleries and they too want to buy I fence, because it have be paint by the great Lautisse: Lautisse, who have paint nothing for ten year, and whose picture be worth a quarter of a million dollar.


"Gentleman," I say. "I do not know anything about paint picture, but I know how to paint a fence. I can tell you that a bear with a brush in it mouth could paint a fence almost as well as Lautisse."


A thousand dollar for the fence! say one of the Widdicome man.


"Twelve hundred!" say little Mr Vegaro.


"Fifteen hundred!"


"Wait a minute, wait!" I shout. "Be you serious? Who be go to give you fifteen hundred dollar for that fence?"


"I God, man!" say the second fellow from Widdicome. "Do not you know that some of the rich person in the country be collector of Lautisse painting? This be only a fence, but it be a real Lautisse!"


I hold up I hand. "Gentleman," I say. "I be not go to sell the fence — not yet. I need a few day to:.."


"Three thousand!" the Widdicome man interrupt.


"Four thousand!" shout Mr Vegaro loud.


Four thousand dollar... more than enough for another trip to Europe! But I really want time to think. I tell they come back in three day.


I do not know how I do not lose I mind the next few day. There be telephone call from Detroit, Chicago, San Francisco, Miami and Montreal. Gallery and museum send person to talk to I. At the end of the second day, I be offer twenty-five thousand, at the end of the third - fifty.


On the fourth day, Lautisse's friend, Gerston appear. "I have enjoy read about your fence so much," he say after he have introduce himself, "that I simply have to come and look at it. Have you decide what you be go to do?"


I be glad to have somebody to talk to, who know art and who do not want to buy anything. He tell I not to sell the fence yet, but to allow the Palmer Museum in New York to exhibit it for a week or two. He tell I an interesting thing — that one reason for the great interest in the fence be that Lautisse have never, in any of he painting use white paint.


The museum send seven man, who pull the fence out of the ground — but oh! so careful, so love — and they take it to New York and put it in a big room in the Palmer Museum. Hundred of person hurry to the museum to see it. I laugh when I see it — I fence have a fence around it!


The exhibition end on Saturday, and Gerston telephone and ask I to meet he at the museum on Sunday. He be wait for I when I arrive, and there be a little smile on he face. "Come in," he say, "I be afraid you will be greatly surprise when you see what we have do."


I be surprise: the fence be cut into piece, and the piece be stand around the wall of the big room.


"Do not get excite," Gerston say. "Please notice that each piece be almost square. There be thirty piece, all like each other. Go near and see what be write at the bottom of each."


There be something write in black paint in the bottom corner of each square. After a minute or two, I recognize it. The piece be sign by Lautisse.


"But... I do not understand," I say. "Why do he sign... Where be he now?"


"Lautisse return to France early this morning," Gerston say. "But last night, he come here and sign each piece of your fence. Now you have really get something to sell!"


It be true. In one month, with Gerston's help, twenty-nine of the thirty piece be sell: each piece cost ten thousand dollar. There be buyer for the thirtieth piece also — many of they — but I refuse to sell it. You can see it on the wall of our good room.